## Overview
<div align= "justify">This paper was published in the International Journal of Science Technoledge and here is the link to the paper : DOI: 10.24940/theijst/2018/v6/i12/ST1811-011</div>

## Introduction
<div align= "justify">Heavy metals are non-biodegradable substances that cause carcinogenic effects in animals and humans. This study was conducted to determine the concentration of lead (Pb), chromium (Cr), and cadmium (Cd) in fish and water samples from the Shitalakkhya River, during the pre-monsoon and post-monsoon periods. In water, the concentration of Pb, Cr, and Cd ranged from 0.01 to 0.3159, 0.322 to 0.407, and 0.0035 to 0.0085 ppm respectively. The concentration of Pb (0.089 ppm) and Cd (0.006 ppm) was higher than the WHO guideline value. The concentrations of heavy metals were season specific and a significant (p˂0.05) positive correlation exists among them in the pre-monsoon period. Among the studied fish, Cr concentration was the highest in Colisafasciat us while Lepidocephalusguntea exhibited the highest accumulation of Pb. The order of heavy metal concentrations in the studied fish specieswere recorded as Cr˃Pb˃Cd. The analysis of fish samples revealed a significant (p˂0.05) negative linear relationship between Pb and Cr while a moderate positive relationship exists between Cd and Cr. The results of this study will help us to assess the health of the river and will serve as the baseline data for the identification of hazardous factors in Shitalakkhya River.</div>

## Findings
* <div align= "justify"> In water samples the concentration of Pb, Cr, and Cd varied seasonally and spatially from 0.01 to 0.3159, 0.322 to 0.407, and 0.0035 to 0.0085 ppm respectively. The mean concentration of Pb and Cd was higher than WHO guideline values. </div>
* <div align= "justify"> In Chanda nama the concentrations of Pb, Cr, and Cd were 0.098, 0.365, and 0.002 ppm respectively. In Lepidocephalusguntea the concentrations of Pb, Cr, and Cd were 0.1525, 0.358, and 0.0021 ppm respectively. </div> 
* <div align= "justify"> In Colisafasciatus the concentrations of Pb, Cr, and Cd were 0.0287, 0.403, and 0.0049 ppm respectively. In Channa punctatus the concentrations of Pb, Cr, and Cd were 0.1278, 0.378, and 0.0057 ppm respectively. </div>
* <div align= "justify"> In Mastacembelusarmatus the concentrations of Pb, Cr, and Cd were 0.0881, 0.362, and 0.0042 ppm respectively. Comparatively higher concentrations of heavy metals were accumulated in Colisafasciatus. </div>
* <div align= "justify"> The order of heavy metal concentrations were observed as Cr˃Pb˃Cd. These results demonstrate the concentration of the studied heavy metals in fish samples was below the FAO permissible limit. However, it is quite evident that there was bioaccumulation of heavy metals in fish tissues and the condition may get worse if the fish is exposed to such a polluted environment for a prolonged period of time. </div> 
